---
title: Supreme
author: lmvincent
type: post
date: 2012-08-17T02:58:00+00:00
url: /2012/08/17/supreme/
tumblr_jordanmarinvincent_permalink:
  - https://jordanmarinvincent.tumblr.com/post/29596330936/supreme
tumblr_jordanmarinvincent_id:
  - 29596330936
tags:
  - Journey

---
While rifling through a bin of old CDs in the garage, I came across my copies of the 25th anniversary collection of Diana Ross and The Supremes. The first thing that came to mind: this is an excellent set for Jordan. She loves music and I&rsquo;m constantly selecting new tunes for her. Both she and her brother have a voracious appetite for music. So, I considered myself quite proud of my discovery. I figured I would surprise her at dinner.

After I transferred everything over to my computer and setup the playlist, I cued up the first track, &ldquo;Love is Here and Now You&rsquo;re Gone&rdquo; just as Jordan was descending the staircase. I imagined I would have to wait 30 seconds or so before she asked, &ldquo;what&rsquo;s this, Dad?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s when I would introduce her to Diana, Mary and Flo. Instead, she started singing along.

&ndash;This is such a great song, Dad.

And then she started rambling along doing her best to make up the words she didn&rsquo;t know. She wagged her head from side to side and narrowed her eyes into a squinty rhapsodic look that revealed just how much she savored the classic Motown sound. 

&ndash;You know this song? I asked.

&ndash;Yeah, it&rsquo;s on the CD you made for me.

Next came &ldquo;You Can&rsquo;t Hurry Love&rdquo; and again, she was bopping along.

&ndash;Did I give you this one, too?

&ndash;Silly, Daddy!

It turns out, I had this same great idea about 3 years ago. But no matter, we shimmied and swayed to The Supremes together as a family while we dined on a good risotto and talked about Jordan&rsquo;s birthday celebration this weekend. I have to say this for myself: good call, 3 year past Larry. Diana Ross & The Supremes fits the slayer very well.